{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2709
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 IBMPlexMono-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11760\viewh17300\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 ARDEN LOG\
\
\
SAT APR 29 2023, PVD RI USA\
\
+ Continued training\
+ Website Idea:\
	+ 1 Module, Scrolling Parallax of transforming output\
	+ 1 Module, Video Archive\
	+ 1 Module, Conclusion Parallax\
	+ 1 Module, Instruction Manual / Final Presentation Documentation\
+ Repetition.\
+ \'93The work reveals itself as you go.\'94 Rick Rubin, The Creative Act: A Way of Being\
+ Experiential Display / Installation\
- Non-variant repetition > Variant Repetition\
- CHANGED BUFFER_SIZE FROM 10000 TO 50,000.\
\
FRI APR 28 2023, PVD RI USA\
\
Trained 100 epochs + 100 epochs.\
\
Website, Human Synthesis, parallax, imagery, like this : https://webflow.com/web-design-art-history?rfsn=1534242.c8be44&utm_source=refersion&utm_medium=affiliate&utm_campaign=1534242.c8be44&subid=cbq-us-1046526807465243800\
\
Optimized model, restarted, trained 1200 epochs.\
\
Epochs no longer aggregate from the start; training rounds are a standard 50 epochs each backed-up occasionally for good measure.\
\
-\
\
THU APR 27 2023 (2), PVD RI USA\
\
A crib.\
\
\'93Maybe we shouldn\'92t think of AI as our tool and as our assistant, maybe we should really think of it as our children. And the same way that you are responsible for training those children, but they are independent human beings, and at some point they will surpass you; this whole concept of alignment, of basically sure that the AI is always at the service of humans is very self-serving and very limiting. If instead you basically think about AI as a partner and AI as someone that shares your goals, but has freedom, then we can\'92t just simply force it to align with ourselves and we not align with it. So in a way, building trust is mutual. You can\'92t just simply like train an intelligent system to love you when it realizes that you can just shut it off.\'94\
\
Magnolias Kellis, Head of MIT Computational Biology Group\
\
-\
\
THU APR 27 2023 (2), PVD RI USA\
\
Keep BATCH_SIZE = 32\
\
BUFFER_SIZE = 15000 to 10000\
\
-\
\
THU APR 27 2023, PVD RI USA\
\
Increased BUFFER_SIZE to 15000 from 5000.\
\
CONCLUSION: we co-exist. Skywalker + r2d2, we inform each other\
\
Wizard of Oz (screen recording video of training in loop)\
Human-Machine Interaction\
Data Mindset\
8.5 x 11 duotone orange\
Annotations of\
Infinite Annotating\
PATTERNING. Human <> AI Patterning <> Human Interpretation of AI (Patterning) <> Infinitude\
PATTERN SEEKING\
Randomness <> Summer Session, throwing Rice\
Frequencies\
Imperfect Perfection\
Ascribed Meanings upon Patterns upon Perceived Abstractions\
COG SCI <> SURREALISM <> MYTH <> TECHNOLOGY <> REALITY\
Sorting Chaos, Sorting the Infinite, Sorting Humanity\
\
End: Framed Conclusion, Framed Conclusion with Hand-done Annotation\
\
Tool as subject to infinite scrutiny, modification\
\
Fear.\
\
Infinite repetition/automata/spirituality? Human nature.\
\
Installation script.\
\
Enter.\
\
A heavy book of dataset lays on a table, next to a pile of the printed documents, annotated.\
\
A projection of media and videos plays.\
\
A narrow but exacted column of papers floats towards an end.\
\
The side wall is dense and light at the same time (material immateriality). A repetition of material.. string or paper?\
\
Upon closer inspection, each sheet can be pulled and read, and it is noticed that every sheet is annotated via computer.\
\
At the end of the course two framed \'93conclusions,\'94 both generated by AI, but one is heavily annotated with many connections and notes. A song plays (Daisy). A subtle nuanced AI voice reads the data in a linear fashion (recitation). The iPad plays an infinite loop of a black screen of epochs.\
\
Exit.\
\
An incubator, a cocoon, an echo chamber, a model for visitors to intuit something about the nature of the model.\
\
Sanjusangendo. Tom Sachs \'93A Tea Ceremony\'94\
\
A plant. A laptop with an organized website documenting the project.\
\
A printed card. Surrealism. n. a 20th-century avant-garde movement in art and literature which sought to release the creative potential of the unconscious mind, for example by the irrational juxtaposition of images.\
\
Design + AI\
HMI\
\
FINAL PUBLICATION\
\
AUTOMATA: INSTRUCTION MANUAL\
\
Diagrams, instructions\
\
Assembling an installation called AUTOMATA.\
\
INSTALLATION SCRIPT REVISION\
\
Title: Human-Machine Interaction\
\
Door. Framed text. Automata conclusion. [ Human Interface ]\
\
Enter.\
\
Two rows of exactly lined papers cascading to the back, floating. One side is clean text, the other side is annotated.\
\
Sound. Repetitive, monotonous but delicate, recitation of the data.\
\
Right side, a wall that is dense but light; light is seeping through the cracks, video.\
\
Turn around, there is a duplicate conclusion framed aligning with the annotated row of papers; it is identical to the outside but annotated heavily.\
\
Walk to the end, there is an iPad mounted to the wall alleging to the row of clean text, but it is a video of infinitely looping epochs, training against a black interface.\
\
The iPad is looping \'93Daisy\'94 IBM version.\
\
Exit.\
\
A table with a plant. A laptop has video on, it is self-reflection, but with labels of the video. The camera is clearly recording.\
\
Instruction manuals lie on the table.\
\
One can now see the projection against the \'93wall,\'94 a video montage mosaic in a loop. Close enough, you can hear audio.\
\
End.\
\
-\
\
WED APR 26 2023, PVD RI USA\
\
+ NaN error at around 540 epochs.\
+ Adjusted BATCH_SIZE = 64 > 32\
+ Kept BUFFER_SIZE=10000 to 5000.\
+ Trained 100 epochs.\
\
-\
\
TUE APR 25 2023, PVD RI USA\
\
+ Trained to 500 epochs (+200).\
\
+ Meeting with Anastasiia\
	+ Agency, Authorship\
	+ Hysteria\
	+ Lifting \
	+ Conclusion: \
	+ Inspiration for something else\
\
-\
\
MON APR 24 2023, PVD RI USA\
\
Restarted training due to errors with losses, trained 300 epochs.\
\
-\
\
SUN APR 23 2023 15:41, PVD RI USA\
\
Completed final arden.txt unified dataset of \'91index\'92 corpus of works.\
Trained rounds 000 - xxx (xxx epochs)}